# What's changed in BigBoat 5.0
Practically all (breaking) changes in **BigBoat 5.0** are motivated by its increased alignment with Docker Compose.

## Docker Compose
With BigBoat 5.0 we say goodbye to the in-house build application definitions and move towards better Docker Compose compatibility. BigBoat now supports Docker Compose v1 files. On top of Compose we still support BigBoat specific features, like `enable_ssh` and `endpoint`. Such extra properties reside in a BigBoat Compose file from now on. Existing application definitions have automatically been migrated to a Docker Compose and BigBoat Compose file.

## Data persistence
With BigBoat 5.0 volume persistence becomes explicit. If you want the data in a volume to be persisted it is no longer enough to just declare a volume. Just like with Docker and Docker Compose you have to explicitly map it to an external directory. This directory is rooted in the storage bucket, that the instance uses.
```yaml
www:
  image: abiosoft/caddy
  volumes:
    - /etc/Caddyfile:/etc/Caddyfile
    - /root/.caddy
```
In the example above only the first volume (the */etc/Caddyfile*) will be persisted in the storage bucket.

Prior to BigBoat 5.0 the volumes were implicitly persisted, but data in a single storage bucket was segregated by services. For example if you had a (part of) definition like:
```yaml
www:
  image: abiosoft/caddy
  volumes:
    - /etc/Caddyfile
```
the *Caddyfile* in question would be stored in the */www/etc/Caddyfile* path in the storage bucket. BigBoat 5.0 has migrated all existing application definitions to the new, Docker Compose aligned, style of declaring volumes, taking care that you can still make use of existing data. This means, that the above fragment has become:
```
www:
  image: abiosoft/caddy
  volumes:
    - /www/etc/Caddyfile:/etc/Caddyfile
```

Volumes of existing compose definitions have automatically been migrated to explicit volume mappings.

## Networking
**BigBoat** will no longer wait for containers to acquire an IP address before starting dependent containers. This is also in line with Docker Compose. Additionally all containers are now automatically started with a `restart: unless-stopped` policy. If a container fails to start because the network is not ready, it will be automatically restarted.

## Environment variables
The usage of environment variables inside the compose definition has changed slightly to be in line with Docker Compose.
Previously the special `BigBoat_` environment variables where automatically added to the environment of every container. This made it possible to use these variables inside the containers. Since **BigBoat 5.0** variables are resolved inside the Docker Compose file. This means that they won't be automatically available inside the container.
Furthermore the `BIGBOAT_SERVICE_NAME` variable is no longer present for two reasons; 1. The environment variable is global to the compose file, thus it cannot have a different value in each service. 2. When defining the compose file you already know the service name. Additionally a couple of new variables got introduced: BIGBOAT_APPLICATION_VERSION and BIGBOAT_INSTANCE_NAME.

| Environment Variable       | Description                 |  Example |
|:---------------------------|-----------------------------|---------:|
|BIGBOAT_PROJECT             | Name of the project         | ACC      |
|BIGBOAT_DOMAIN              | Domain name                 | acc      |
|BIGBOAT_TLD                 | Top level domain            | nl       |
|BIGBOAT_APPLICATION_NAME    | The name of the application | nginx    |
|BIGBOAT_APPLICATION_VERSION | The application version     | 1.0      |
|BIGBOAT_INSTANCE_NAME       | The given instance name     | myname   |
